"Marine Biologist Gameplay" by Ellie

When play begins: say "Welcome to the gameplay! My game will be in 64bit soon." 

Include Rideable Vehicles by Graham Nelson. 

Release along with the source text, an introductory postcard, and an interpreter.
Index map with room-size set to 36.

The block giving rule is not listed in the check giving it to rules. 

Carry out giving (this is the gratitude for gifts rule): improve the mood of the second noun. 

When play begins:
	now the right hand status line is "[time of day]";
	now the left hand status line is "[location]".

Mood is a kind of value. The moods are hostile, curious, happy, friendly, and adoring, hungry. An animal has a mood.

To improve the mood of (character - an animal): 
	if the mood of character is less than friendly, now the mood of the character is the mood after the mood of the character. 

The pressure stablizer is a thing. The pressure stablizer can be active or inactive. The pressure stablizer is inactive.

The seaweed biscuit is an edible thing carried by the player.
The kelp sandwich is an edible thing carried by the player.

Instead of eating the kelp sandwich in the presence of Scruffy: 
	say "Scruffy sits in front of you as you take out the sandwhich. Your worrying prevents you from eating in front of the dog."
Instead of eating the seaweed biscuit in the presence of Scruffy:
	say "Scruffy sits in front of you as you take out the biscuit. Your worrying prevents you from eating in front of the dog."

The House is a room. "multiple rooms are blocked by doors with long windows. At the table is Scruffy's food & water bowls, plates with cups neatly set, and a chandelier of seashells and glowing candles above. Your bedroom door is lined with decor coral, wave stickers, and dog pawpads. A coatrack sits at the front door, carrying an oxygen tank and scuba gear instead of jackets. A birch door leads to the northwest."
Scruffy is a happy animal in the House. "[Scruffy] looks [mood]!"
The description of Scruffy is "He pants cutely, his tail thumping against the hardwood floor. He looks very much like a Chesapeake Bay Retriever and Portuguese Water Dog mix."
The creature facts of Scruffy is "'The Portuguese Water Dog is a breed of dog that has webbed feet. They are waterproof and don't shed, which make a good companion for all your needs.'"

The coat stand is in the House.
The oxygen tank is on the coat stand. The coat stand is fixed in place.
the description of the oxygen tank is "The tank is covered in black and silver coating, oxygen cylinders fixed inside. Yellow straps and velcrow allow you to put it on. Take it with you?"

The birch door is north of the House and south of the Bedroom.
The birch door is a door. The birch door is lockable and locked. The silver key unlocks the birch door. 
The player carries the silver key.
The description of the birch door is "A birch texture marked on the door, with an extra pet doorway at the very bottom of it."

The scuba armor is on the coat stand.
the description of the scuba armor is "Black and green bring the outfit a neat design and color. Put it on?"

The table is in the House. The table is fixed in place.
The scanner disk is a thing. The scanner disk is on the table.
A thing has some text called the creature facts. The creature facts of a thing is usually "The device seems to not know about this."
Scanning it with is an action applying to one visible thing and one thing. 
Understand "scan [something visible]" as scanning it with.
Understand "scan [something visible] with [something]" as scanning it with.
Rule for supplying a missing second noun while scanning with: 
	if the scanner disk is carried, now the second noun is the scanner disk;
	otherwise say "You will need the scanner disk to scan [the noun]." 
Check scanning something with something:
	if the second noun is not the scanner disk:
		say "You can't do that with [the second noun]." instead;
	else if the player is not carrying the scanner disk:
		say "You need the scanner disk in your inventory first, then you can scan [the noun]." instead.
Carry out scanning something with something:
	say "You stick the scanner disk to [the noun] and it shows the facts about it. The creature facts are: [the creature facts of the noun]."
	
The pressure stablizer is on the table. 
The description of the pressure stablizer is "A gadget that stablizes the pressure of different areas underwater, ticks with a constant messure. The dial constantly haywires on the gauge."
Instead of putting on the pressure stablizer:
	now the pressure stablizer is active;
	say "You grab the stablizer and put it in the scuba armor's left pocket."

The Bathroom is northeast of the House.
Instead of going northeast in the presence of Scruffy:
	say "[Scruffy] runs to block the way in. He barks happily, but still will not let you into the bathroom."
	
The Bedroom is northwest of the House. "A big bed is fixed next to a large window. Above it is paintings of coral, the sea, and pictures of exotic fish. Scruffy's dog bed lays next to a drawer with a TV standing on top. A cyan carpet encourages with warm welcome, as there are two; one in the middle of your bedroom, the other as a small doormat."
In the Bedroom is a birch door.

The Seashore is south of the House. "The sounds of waves crashing immediately blast into your ears, your job of being a marine biologist right there, in the ocean, beyond shore."
The exploration boat is a rideable vehicle in the Seashore.
The description of the exploration boat is "A reasonably large sailboat that could take you only a week to cross around South America. The boat's sails are down, and it's ready to launch from the beach whenever."
Instead of going to the House when the player is on the exploration boat:
	say "Your boat has to be docked to go in your house."
Understand "boat" as exploration boat.

The Pacific Ocean Surface is south of the Seashore. "The coast surrounds you, mild water bobbing you gently."
Instead of going to the Pacific Ocean Surface when the player is not on the exploration boat:
	say "It will take a long time to get there if you just swim..."
	
The South Atlantic Ocean Surface is east of the Pacific Ocean Surface. "The coast of the South Atlantic Ocean, a place to the east of the South Pacific Ocean. It may have taken you quite a few days to get here, but aren't you glad it was worth it?"
The Submarine is a rideable vehicle in the South Atlantic Ocean Surface.
The description is "Kelp hangs on to the Submarine, slightly discolouring it. The submarine seems to be abandoned, with some clean scuba gear inside. It looks as if the Submarine was recently dropped off here..?"

The North Atlantic Ocean Surface is northwest of the South Atlantic Ocean Surface. "The other side of the Atlantic Ocean, slightly sandwich-ed between North America and Africa."

The Puerto Rico Trench is down of the North Atlantic Ocean Surface. "The Puerto Rico Trench is right below you, barely anything visible. You will have to take the submarine down in order to see at the bottom and survive."

The Hadal Zone Border is down of the Puerto Rice Trench. "The border right at the ocean basin and the trench itself. Hopefully, it won't be too dark down there..."

The Hadalpelagic Zone is down of the Hadal Zone Border. "Now you are inside the trench, continueing down the trench slowly. A light on your submarine shines and surrounds the area outside of it. Cusk-eels and giant isopods are at the floor, scuttling and swimming."
The Giant Isopod is an animal in the Hadalpelagic Zone.
The creature facts of the Giant Isopod is "'The Giant Isopod is a type of invertebrate that roams the seafloor of trenches and parts of the abyssal zone. It can grow up to 16 inches (or 40 cm). They live in the Indo-West-Pacific and the Western Atlantic Ocean at 550-7000 ft deep (or 170–2100 m). The Giant Isopod eats debris of fish and crabs, and whatever else falls from the top. They are related to Krill, lobster, barnacles, amphipods, shrimp, and crabs.'"
The Cusk-Eel is an animal in the Hadalpelagic Zone.
The creature facts of the Cusk-Eel is "''"

The Epipelagic Zone is down of the Pacific Ocean Surface. "As you jump off the boat, a splash shows where you have plunged. Angelfish swim past you, which give you the amazement that this is what you were boating on. Coral reefs and kelp forests can be seen in the distance, to give you a reminder which zone you are in."
Instead of going to the Epipelagic Zone when the player is in the exploration boat:
	say "You can't take the boat with you underwater..."
Instead of going to the Epipelagic Zone when the player is not carrying an oxygen tank:
	say "You won't be able to breathe if you don't have the proper gear equipped."

The Kelp Forest is west of the Epipelagic Zone. "A forest full of giant kelp surrounds you. Stingrays, snails, and camoflauging fish populate the entire bottom half of the kelp forest. A coral reef can be seen nearby."

The Kelp Forest Canopy is up of the Kelp Forest. "A special place for the sunlight to reach the giant kelp, and a nice place to be warm and hide from big creatures. Kelp fish hide in the big leaves, while the rest of the stingrays swim around the area."
The Kelp Bass is an animal in the Kelp Forest Canopy.
The description is "A kind of bass that has quite a few fins, with strange patterned scales. Lucky for you to find it in this specific kelp forest!"
The creature facts of the Kelp Bass is "'The Kelp Bass is a species of bass that lives in kelp forests, growing up to 72 cm (or 28.5 inches). They eat squids, crustaceans, and smaller fish. The Kelp Bass can be found in Oregon, Baja California, and the coast of the Pacific. They are related to Sea Bass and Groupers, and their scientific family name is Serranidae.'"

The Coral Reef is a room. The Coral Reef is east of the Epipelagic Zone. "An ecosystem, filled with schools of european anchovies, mantis shrimp, decorator crabs, and american lobsters. Coral covers homes for sea sponges, moving slowly with the waving anemonies. The reef is filled to the brim with corals and creatures that help the coral as well as live there. How amazing it would be if you would live here as well."
Understand "reef" as the Coral Reef.
An animal called the coral is in the Coral Reef.
Understand "coral" as the coral.
The creature facts of the coral is "'Coral is an animal that supports 25% of marine life, built from growing and multiplying polyps. The animals have plant-like cells inside that create these carbonate skeletons. Coral protects itself from ultraviolet light through flourescent molecules. There are problems with climate change that bleach the coral reefs, which the climate has bleached over 50% of the Great Barrier Reef in Australia.'"

The Mesopelagic Border is down of the Epipelagic Zone. "The border between the Mesopelagic and Epipelagic zones are right where you are now, the pressure change confusing your body. It would be a good idea to take better gear if you plan to go right into the Mesopelagic."
Instead of going to the Twilight Zone when the player is not carrying pressure stablizer:
	say "It would be best to take better equipment to handle the pressure changes."

The Twilight Zone is down of the Mesopelagic Border. "This is the official Mesopelagic Zone, where the pressure keeps rising the further you go down. It's a good thing you have the pressure gauge to keep your equipment from breaking."
The Great White Shark is an animal in the Twilight Zone.
The description is "The great white shark floats lazily as some cleaner wrasses swarm it. algae gets cleaned off it's teeth and fins, a nice service for both animals!"
The creature facts of the Great White Shark is "'The Great White Shark is a species of shark that are the largest predatory fish in the oceans. They have powerful tails that help them travel at over 60km/ph. Predatory means they eat smaller fish or other kinds of creatures in the sea. Great White Sharks are grey on their backs and have a white underbelly.'"
The Longneck Eel is an animal in the Twilight Zone.
The description is "The Longneck Eel looks super strange, as it hides it's bottom half in a hole slightly bigger than it's own body."
The creature facts of the Longneck Eel is "'The Longneck Eel is a pelagic fish, which means they live in the pelagic zone of the ocean. The Longneck Eel has stripes on it's head that is part of it's sensory system. They can grow up to 1-2 feet in length.'"
The Cleaner Wrasses is an animal in the Twilight Zone.
The creature facts of the Cleaner Wrasses is "'The Cleaner Wrasse is a kind of fish that cleans predators, like a free car wash for the bigger creatures. They can withstand a temperature of 82F - 72F.  They can grow up to 5 inches in size, which helps them get in small spaces to clean gunk. The Cleaner Wrasse lives in the Pacific and Idian Oceans. Their scientific name is Labroides Dimidiatus, and commonly called the Blue Streak Cleaner Wrasse.'"

The Midnight Zone Border is down of the Twilight Zone. "This is the border between the Midnight Zone and the Twilight Zone. There is barely any visibility now, but there are at least two more zones to go until you reach the very bottom of the ocean."

The Bathypelagic Zone is down of the Midnight Zone Border. "The official Midnight Zone, one of the three darkest zones in the entire ocean depth ever recorded. Many creatures that glow live here, like anglerfish, comb jellies, and many large squids. A Hydrothermal Vent Field and part of the Ring of Fire can be seen."
The Deep Sea Dragonfish is an animal in the Bathypelagic Zone.
The creature facts of the Deep Sea Dragonfish is "'The Deep Sea Dragonfish is a species of dragonfish that lives in the Bathypelagic Zone. It can grow an average of 6 inches, and can eat fish more than half their size. They aren't a real threat a humans, but are still ferocious, small creatures. The Deep Sea Dragonfish lives at least 1640 feet deep in the ocean, which is about near the border of the Midnight Zone.'"
The Comb Jelly is an animal in the Bathypelagic Zone.
The creature facts of the Comb Jelly is "'The Comb Jelly is a type of invertebrate that is not related to jellyfish. It eats other Comb Jellies bigger than itself by taking chunks with cilia structures in the mouth. The locations and size varies with it's species, making it a strange kind of invertebrate. The Comb Jelly eats other Comb Jellies, Salps, and Siphonophores. It is somehow related to Sea Gooseberry and the Lobed Comb Jelly.'"
Instead of going to the Bathypelagic Zone when the player is not in the Submarine:
	say "You won't be able to breathe if you go even further down..."

The Abyssal Zone Border is down of the Bathypelagic Zone. "The border between the Abyssal Zone and the Midnight Zone, which the pressure thumps hard into your body, making it hard to control from sinking farther down. There is no light besides the animals around, which are harder to see through scuba goggles."

The Abyssopelagic Zone is down of the Abyssal Zone Border. "A pitch black area, which now you have reached the very sea floor. Hydrothermal Vents surround parts of the area, with small sea mounts and siphonophores drifting peacefully in the black zone. Lots of scallops and rocks with holes cover around the place you landed at, with some vampire squid and viperfish in the area as well."
The Siphonophore is an animal in the Abyssopelagic Zone.
The creature facts of the Siphonophore is "'The Siphonophore is a type of invertebrate that is as thick as a broomstick. They grow up to 130 feet long (or 40 m) in length. It can live in the Abyssal Zone, or at heights of the midwater (2,297–3,281 feet, or 700–1,000 m). The Siphonophore eats small crustaceans, other gelatinous creatures, small fish and fish larvae. They relate to other Siphonophores, like the Giant Siphonophore, which is bioluminescent of a bright blue light if it bumps into something.'"

The Hydrothermal Vent Field is west of the Abyssopelagic Zone. "Hydrothermal Vents, or steep hills with hot steam coming out of them, make a large field for blind creatures to inhabit. They provide warmth to cold creatures who need warmth to survive the cold climate below, which is where the Hydrothermal Vents come in handy. Different types of crabs and shrimp live around this field."
The Yeti Crab is an animal in the Hydrothermal Vent Field.
The creature facts of the Yeti Crab is "'The Yeti Crab is a type of decapod that has different names, such as yeti lobster, or furry lobster. They have lots of hair on their arms, and a bit on their legs as well. They live in the South Pacific Ocean, and huddle around Hydrothermal Vents. They eat bacteria and mussels, and at the weight of 2-5 pounds. The Yeti Crab's size is 15 cm (or 6 inches) and their lifespan is around 10-20 years. The number of species is 5, the colors range around from pale white, grey, and yellow.'"

Test Ocean with "take everything/examine oxygen tank/northeast/examine Scruffy/take oxygen tank and scuba gear and pressure stablizer/i/eat seaweed biscuit/south/south/mount exploration boat/south/dismount/down/w/u/d/e/e/w/d/d"

Test Scan with "scan Scruffy/scan Scruffy with scanner disk/scan Scruffy with kelp sandwich/take everything/scan Scruffy with scanner disk/scan Scruffy/scan Scruffy with kelp sandwich"